---
title: Personal Case Study
layout: post
tags: week12 personal-case-study
---

<iframe class="images100" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/QPkuR1W7kug?controls=0" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
<br />

[//]: # Briefly describe what you have accomplished so far, focusing on the core skills related to your aspirations.

This initial module was a truly emotional and technical rollercoaster for me. After starting out motivated, I rapidly became overwhelmed with work, making me question my presence in the course. I remember asking myself if this was right for me. Being constantly tired from my full time job and contract work made my judgement very cloudy regarding the master's degree, and it was a burden in the back of my mind for a long period of time. The addressed topics seemed very uninteresting at first and I would have a hard time finding motivation to start a journaling session or simply study a bit longer than the necessary minimum. 

Reflecting back on those thoughts by the end of the module made me realize that it was specifically these topics that I found the least interesting that ended up being the more important ones for my development. I felt terribly insecure about my ability to write in English, as it is not my native language, and found difficult to share my blog with my peers. Eventually, it was journaling that improved my writing skills and my confidence to a respectable level. To further complement my writing and reflection capabilities, I've started reading whenever possible, in hopes to increase both my knowledge on videogames and other related subjects as well as broadening my vocabulary. More importantly, the Time and Project Management topic made me aware of the problems that I am facing daily regarding my own productivity, and has equipped me with knowledge of techniques I can use to tackle them.

Creating the journal was also a very interesting experience. I made a website using a framework called jekyll, learnt the basics of html, css and javascript, which I knew nothing of, and even created my own theme, which is hosted on github and ruby gems. With this learning process, I feel much more capable of improving my current website and possibly creating a new, more professional one, for my small business.

[//]: # Structure your thoughts and reflections, focusing on lessons learned from the two rapid ideation sessions.

Through the rapid ideation sessions I've improved some of my current skills that needed polishing. One of the more eye-opening part of it was the understanding that using techniques like mind maps and brainstorms can generate unusual and fun ideas that otherwise would not come to mind so easily. It was also a very insightful activity to measure my current ability to prototype ideas. I came to realise that I am well equipped with programming skills and a strong understanding of videogame workflows. Such a skill contributes greatly to fast iteration, which can be a great asset for contributing to my group's success in the next module and future collaborations. On the other hand, my artistic contributions are still very limited, hence the deep need to develop such skills. In addition to the rapid ideation sessions proposed in the course, I was able to participate in a weekend gamejam that provided me with a much appreciated creative and collaborative mindset that allowed me to improve my designs and communication with other practitioners. Although I haven't found the time to journal that experience, I now understand that it is invaluable to reflect upon your previous work, especially after a longer time passage.

[//]: # Outline key areas of practice you aim to develop across the rest of your master's level study.

For the rest of my studies, I'm aiming at further developing a few key areas of my practice. Firstly, time management, which is crucial to getting things done, with the least amount of stress possible. Shader creation has become one of my absolute passions that I don't develop enough. It is also one of my goals, like I mentioned in the Self-reflection journal entry. The concept of sound design and game design are still hard for me to deconstruct into small stages of development, but hopefully I will have a better understanding of them with the help of further research. With the help of journaling and good scheduling, I believe I can set new goals regarding design in the near future.

[//]: # Propose directions for further research and self-exploration that will support such development.

Based on the small post I made regarding the reading week activity, one of the conclusions that can be made is that analyzing other people's work is crucial for my own development. Looking at interesting work with the eyes of an apprentice, and not so much of a consumer, as proven to be a interactive way to reflect upon my own ideas and beliefs.
In future modules, I will build upon this idea, making small analysis of animation movies, soundtracks, games and illustrations as I feel it helps me deconstruct fundamental concepts necessary to create a memorable games.

"He who understands other people has knowledge; he who understands himself is seeing clearly." (Lao-tzu et al., 1993)

[//]: # Explain how you intend to take your personal development forward by defining SMART goals informed by research.

Initially I set S.M.A.R.T goals to complement my desire to be a greater contributor to the artistic workflow of the projects I work on, but by the end of this module, I came to realize that I need a second set of S.M.A.R.T goals for my time management skills. It will be my priority, as extensive planning and fulfillment of responsibilities has proven to be a crucial skill to achieve higher productivity (Peterson, 2017), which consequentially helps in learning new skills in a shorter period of time.

<br />
<label class="imgLabel">.</label>
<label class="imgLabel">.</label>
<label class="imgLabel">.</label>

# / References

* Lao-tzu et al. (1993) Dao de Jing. Hackett Publishing Company (Hackett Classics Series). Available at: https://books.google.pt/books?id=7dVZ_avGb-0C.
